Today we will start using one of
the most practical and useful
tools you will acquire throughout
the Power MBA.
I personally love it and if I
were to be put on the
thesis that we had to use
only two tools, I think I
would focus on Business Model
Canvas and the value curves.
Why do I like the curve of value
so much?
Well, because I think it helps a
lot to understand the competitive
curve, to understand what the rest
does, how you can differentiate,
to look for competitive advantages,
and ultimately from
all that knowledge from
that base it is easier to
innovate.
It is also a tool that helps us
innovate, we will see it in the
course of the blue ocean
strategy.
What is this value curve?
You have it on screen.
The value curve is drawn on
a table called a strategic
table and is drawn on the
value curves, your value
curve, a competitor's
value curve, or a competitor'
s value curve, etc.
This is the graphic structure, let's say.
Now let's get into how the
value curve is used.
The first thing you need
to understand is to
identify competitive
factors.
There are people who call
it differently, there are people
who call it variables,
well, anyway.
Regardless of the name we use, it
is very important that you understand
what this is?
Competitive factors, as I like
to call it, are the factors
around which competition in
a sector revolves.
That is, they are those factors
in which companies that are
within that sector invest to
offer value to their customers.
This is not well understood,
but with an example.
What are the competitive
factors of the automotive industry?
What are car manufacturers
investing in to offer value?
Well, what are the values that the
customer perceives and by which
they decide to buy one or another?
For example, I would say the price.
The price is clear, the price
is always in all sectors, it
is one of the main variables.
Often it is decided by price.
Another variable
is the engine.
All manufacturers invest in providing
better performance in terms
of engine.
Most importantly, the automotive
industry is the brand.
The brand is important in this
case, especially in
the, say, higher segments.
Design is very important.
They invest a lot in having beautiful things.
The consumer is also very interested
in the design.
Often decisions are
made based on design.
Comfort, performance,
etc. and safety can be.
I would say that these
are the six main competitive
factors.
I'll leave some, but I think you
understand what we're talking about.
Do we have them here?
Competitive factors we have
to be able to identify them
quickly from any type of sector.
And what we do is, in the strategic
frame, in the axis of the X, in
the horizontal axis, we put
all the competitive factors.
Why is?
Because from here, what we
will do is draw the curves
of value.
As I said, we're going to draw the
curve of value.
You can draw the one
of your main competitor,
yours, the industry
in general.
In many cases, competitor
value curves can be grouped
into segments.
In the different segments they
use, let's say they have opted
for similar strategies.
The curve of value, I'll recalculate
it, right?
The higher the value for the customer
and the more investment it requires.
That's usually so, right?
And we'll do it again with the
automotive industry.
I usually choose this example because
I think it's a sector you understand
well.
Let's start with the ultrasonic
car segment.
We will draw the curve of value.
How would it be?
It would be something like that.
The price is very high.
Design invests a lot in design.
He invests a lot in the engine.
They invest a lot in brand.
And then there are other factors
that for this type of car care
less,, such as comfort, safety
and others.
What strategy?
Now you know what the general
strategies are.
What is the strategy in this case for Ferrari?
It is clear that it is a niche
strategy in which your target audience
values those factors much more
than those in which they are positioned
above.
And in this case, safety and comfort don'
t value you so much because that's not
what you're looking for, right?
Now, we're going to get
to the premium car.
For example, we have the Germans
here, right?
The three German marks.
What is the value curve?
It would be a little below
Ferrari in terms of price,
design, engine, brand, etc.,
but it's up in terms of comfort
and safety because they'
re cars that people use on
a daily basis, right?
What is the strategy these companies
are following?
Clearly it is a strategy, the
generic strategy is a differentiation
strategy.
We've seen it, they're aiming at the whole
market and also with a high value,
right?
They do not compete in price.
Finally, we go to the
most economical segment.
We will draw the curve of value.
I think it's easy to
draw, right?
This is below the curve
of premium cars.
Obviously they are cheaper, but
invests less design, less value
the engine, etc.
I think it's a very parallel
curve to the same trajectory
as premium cars,
but a little lower.
What are they playing?
What generic strategy
can we position all these competitors,
the economic cars?
I think they compete in
cost.
Indeed, competition, as we
saw earlier in another class,
is cost-led.
They are looking to be cost leaders.
Well, since we already have
here, we have the value curves of
the three main segments in this industry.
There could be more, right?
We've identified a group of competitors
that compete in a niche, we'
ve identified those who compete
in differentiation and we've identified
those who compete, those who
pretend to be cost leaders,
right?
And finally, let's put a particular
example to illustrate how a
company can look or should,
right?
You can, you should look for your unique value
proposition, your differentiation, right?
by Volvo.
Volvo has traditionally positioned
itself as having sold a great
value in terms of safety.
Well, if we have the value curves
of the rest of the industry,
we see how Volvo has drawn
a slightly different curve.
And in the competitive factor,
security, we are above the rest.
It's always good to have a different
curve than the others, especially if
there's a segment of customers that values
that particular factor, right?
When we talk about differentiation,
remember, when you need to look for
a competitive advantage by differentiation,
it is convenient to do so, identify
a segment of customers
that values something that
you have different from
others.
You're not competing
with others anymore, right?
Volvo is very clear.
There are a lot of people who maybe,
because many families don't value
it, or many car buyers don't value
safety so much and give more value
to design and choose another brand
maybe, right?
But that's, say, positioning,
that's the strategy, that'
s the source where Volvo seeks
its competitive advantage.